<h2> README (work in progress) </h2>

The scripts in this folder are written to automatically generate GALFIT input files from SpArcFiRe output.
Please note, this script is still a work-in-progress and relies on the hard-coding of some things including
directory structure. 

<h3> INTRODUCTION </h3>

The previous version, *s2g.py* and its related scripts, are written to automatically generate the disk and bulge
parameters for GALFIT. This version intended to include the generation of spiral arc parameters but was halted
before it could be completed.

The new version, **sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py**, includes the generation of spiral arc parameters. Due to the nature
of the work however, one cannot run **sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py** and then immediately GALFIT; **sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py**
places each feedme into the individual output folder for each galaxy. Furthermore, the feedme generated allots for the inclusion
of star masking, (and soon) PSFs, which are stored separately. For these reasons and more, we use a bash script aptly named
**control_script.sh** to handle all the nuts and bolts. To reiterate, for the components and parameters, you may run
**sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py** alone. 

There is now an additional script, *in_out_comparison.py* which compares our automatically generated input with GALFIT's output to 
determine where it may be improved. A version of this will be used for error detection in the future but for now, it simply offers
the user a chance to see how much the two differ. *in_out_comparison.py* outputs two types of files: 
* one file per galaxy and located in the galaxy's folder which contains the parameter information from the input, output, and the difference 
between the two as a text file called *galfit_io_compare.txt*
* one file which contains *all* of the difference values between the two for every galaxy but just the differences. This is called
*comparison_params.csv* and will be generated in the folder *all_galfit_out*. 

---

<h3> Current Directory Structure </h3> 

```
control_script.sh

sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py

*sparcfire-in -- input FITS files

                      *galfit_masks -- SExtractor Star Masks
*sparcfire-tmp --  <- *galfits      -- Output FITS models
                      *psf_files    -- PSFs generated for input FITS
                                 
*sparcfire-out -- *galfit_png       -- FITS models converted to PNG
                  
                  DEPRECATED
                                    -- Output FITS models
                  *all_galfit_out -- <- comparison_param.csv
```

---

<h3> TO RUN: </h3>

These two scripts should be placed in the same directory as the containing directory for the in, tmp, and out folders
used with SpArcFiRe. Since it's still a WIP, ***please name these folders [name]-in, [name]-tmp, [name]-out or
the script(s) won't work. Preferably sparcfire-in, sparfire-tmp, sparcfire-out just in case...*** 

---

<h3> JUST THE FEEDME PARAMETERS </h3>

`python sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py`
(it must be run in Python >3.6 to work with f-string implementation)

We recommend running this alone upon first installation to ensure it works correctly.

---

<h3> THE FEEDMEs + GALFIT </h3>

`python3 control_script.py`

---
<h3> OUTPUT FILE STRUCTURE </h3>

The folder ~~*all_galfit_out*~~ *sparcfire-tmp/galfits* contains a summary of sorts of all pertinent output: models as FITS files, the models converted to PNGs,
and the *comparison_params.csv* file comparing the values between the input and output parameter files for GALFIT. This folder and
its subfolders are generated by **control_script.py**. **control_script.py** also creates folders inside *sparcfire-tmp* to hold
the masks, PSF files, and galfits (just in case GALFIT 'explodes') while the control script is still running. This alleviates the 
error catching burden when tidying up! 

You can also find all of the above in the individual galaxy folders - with the exception of PNGs and the overall comparison between
galaxies; there is instead a single text file, *galfit_io_compare.txt* which contains the input, output, and difference between the two.

---

It is possible to perform the feedme generation with just these two but there are other optional
inputs which we recommend and have also included already built into the control script - if you do not wish to include
these, the scripts should run anyway albeit with many messages:

* Star Masks: Requires the use of SExtractor. Parameters and python script found in star_removal. **control_script.sh**
automatically generates a folder to hold the masks and checks if they've already been generated. Placed in a folder in
sparcfire-tmp. 

* PSF Generation (SDSS only): Requires the use of the *Read_PSF* program from SDSS's website. **sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py**
takes information from the csv included in star_dl according to our own naming convention - as controlled by a function in
**sparc_to_galfit_feedme_gen.py** to be easily modified to follow SDSS' naming convention - and
outputs the information necessary to find and download the psfield file (work in progress) into the generated feedme. The 
psfield should then be processed by the Read_PSF executable.
** NOTE, once you compile the Read_PSF executable, you must replace the file, phConsts.h with the file included here or 
otherwise change the value of the SOFT_BIAS to 0. If you don't, the PSF generated will not work with GALFIT and will 
produce bad output due to the existence of a pedestal. 

* Output conversion to PNG: Requires the use of the *fitspng* utility from http://integral.physics.muni.cz/fitspng/. 
fitspng provides an easy and efficient way to convert the output from GALFIT to pngs for ease of viewing. This is also
already included in the control script. If the pngs seem to be blown out, it's possible the conversion utility is having
trouble with some flags in control_script.sh. If this is the case, try removing the flag -fr "1,150" and then run. This has
only occurred on one machine for reasons I'm not familiar with. control_script.sh then uses the *ImageMagick* utility to 
automatically panel the PNG converted output with some of SpArcFiRe's to reduce bloat and make comparison easy. The converted
PNGs are then deleted and all that is left is the combined/paneled image in a separate folder within sparcfire-out.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Newest scripts written by Matthew Portman under the tutelage of Dr. Wayne Hayes, UCI.
Others written by the SDSS team and Darren Davis who also made SpArcFiRe. 
